# Brief Summary
Kill waves and waves of zombies with medieval "tech".

# Gameplay
The player will have to fight through waves and waves of zombies. Every wave, the player will be prompted with three choices to make. These choices will define the play style of the next wave. If the player likes that play style they may use it for the rest of the game if they so wish. There are upgrades that can apply to those choices, making them better and stronger. However, these upgrades require the player to use those items and have a certain amount of blood (the coin in the game). The player will have to buy those upgrades and choices every wave. If the player does not have enough blood, then they will have to use some choice that is either free or low of cost. Also, when the player dies, they will lose a huge amount of blood and the wave counter will also reset back to 1. Essentially, the player will have to restart from scratch but with enough blood to keep them going.  

## The Blood
Blood is the coin in this game. You gain it by killing zombies, of course. The use of the blood is to buy items at the choice screen after every wave. If the player wants to requip an item for the next wave to change it with something different, then blood is what's going to allow them to do that. Blood cannot be purchased or given to the player at any point. The only way to gain blood is by killing the zombies. Blood will max out at 2.4B obviously since it's an int. Just a small note, the game does start with two free choices in the beginning of game: the short sword and the naked armor. So the player can start with something simple and then continue playing the game, getting more blood and obtaining better gear.

## The Combat System
The combat in this game is as simple as the player pressing a button a collider appearing and if that collider hits the zombie, the zombie's health will decrease, the player's sword's durability will decrease, and the player will gain score if the zombie dies. It's not complicated. It's very simple. If you have a sword that does a lot of damage, the zombies can die in one hit. However, if the sword is not good enough or its durability is 0, then the player will have to hack the zombies more in order to kill them. The player will obviously gain blood when they kill the zombie. Unless the player has the naked armor, which can grant the player blood upon hitting the zombie, the only way the player can gain blood is by killing the zombie.

On the other hand, the player can get hit by the zombie and die. Without any armor or health abilities, the player can die from the zombie by only two hits. However, if the player is more geared up and has some abilities like better defense or better health, the player can sustain more than two hits. Different armor in the game will grant different defense bonuses, but all in all, having an armor set is useful for not getting killed. Besides defense, the player can also increase their health either by getting the applicable ability or by picking up health points if zombies do drop them. Other than the options listed above, the player cannot get more health or defense in any other way. 

While the zombies' health do increase after every wave, the player can potentially be stronger every wave than the zombies. With the right equipment and abilities, the player can slice through the zombies like knife on butter. However, the player needs to keep attention on their sword's durability bar. If the durability of the sword goes down that's no problem but when it's completely 0 then the sword will have half it's strength, and in the case of the spear no strenght at all. While there are drops and abilities to accomadate for that, the player still needs to keep an eye on that durability bar as well as the health bar. But that won't be a problem since they're next to each other. Even though the durability of the sword is important, its damage is as important as well. From the four weapons the player can choose from, every one will have its strengths and weaknesses. The player will just have to choose which is more important and better than the other. All depends on the player's play style, of course. The player can also get an increase in durability ability or an increase in damage ability. Both are useful in different ways. The player will just have to decide for themselves which is more useful than the other.

The mobility of the player can also be influenced with the gear they choose. For example, if the player decides to use the heavy sword along with the heavy armor with no abilties to accomadate to the heavy weight, the player's mobility will be extremely weighed down by the heavy sets they decided to use. There are two ways to solve this problem: pick lighter gear or go for the decrease in weight ability, which, at the fourth upgrade level, will have the player's mobility completely independant of the their items. So, if the player decides to level up the weight ability to its maximum, the player can choose whatever gear they want without the need to worry about its weight, since that will not take effect anymore.

The player will now have to keep an eye for a couple of things as they are fighting zombies: their health, their sword's durability, their movements, and not getting hit. Perhaps it's a lot, but it's all things that are grouped together nicely which will make it easier to keep an eye on them togther as a whole.

## The Wave System
Every wave, the player will have to kill a certain amount of zombies in order to end the wave and start a new one. However, the number of zombies to kill increases every wave by 5. For example, if the current wave requires the player to kill 40 zombies to end the wave, the next wave will have 45 zombies to kill. The maximum that number can go is 100. There is no wave that can have more than 100 zombies to kill in order to end the wave. Though keep in mind, the player will have to go very far in order to reach that number. Or maybe that number could change.

The first wave in the game will start out with only 20 zombies to kill. Gradually, as the number increases, the player will have to spend more and more time in the wave in order to end it. But that also means that the player could potentially level up multiple items in a couple of waves. The late game waves are obviously the easiest to level items since they have more zombies to kill in a single wave. The player could potentially level up 3 items at once in one wave. 

Another thing to consider is the zombies' strength. The health and the speed of the zombies will increase gradually as the waves continue. The zombies will get more aggresive and harder to kill as the game progresses. The player will have to make sure he's careful in the later waves since they can be tougher. However, like many things in this game, the amount of health and speed the zombies gain after each wave does cap out at a certain point. Doing this will ensure the player will get stronger and stronger while the zombies will lag behind, making the player feel like a God.

And just for performance reasons, there could only be 20 zombies at a time in the screen. The player will have to kill some zombies in order for new ones to spawn. But the number of zombies on the screen at a time cannot exceed 20. Perhaps that number can change, but there needs to be a limit on the amount of entities on the screen.

At the end of each wave, as disscussed above, the game will take the player to the choice screen where the player may choose their items and continue to the next wave. Once the player ends the wave and enters the next wave, they will notice that their health and the durability of their swords is resotred back. And this will happen every wave. The player's health and sword's durability will get reset. Essentially, the game loop is going into a wave, finishing the wave, go to the choice screen, start a new wave, and repeat.

## The Weapon Choice
Every wave the player can choose between four different weapons: the short sword: fast, nimble and easy to use, but has a low range and low damage. The Broad Sword: not as fast as the short sword, but has higher damage and better range. The Heavy Sword: slow, heavy, and hard to use, but has a very long range and amazing damage. The Spear: purely range-based. Can only be thrown. It has amazing range, since it will only stop when hit with a static object. Has the same damage as the broad sword. However, it will be dequipped from the player, forcing the player to have to chase it to wherever it will stop and requipped it again. Once the player chooses one of these weapons, they cannot choose any different weapon except when the current wave ends.  

## The Ability Choice 
There are four abilities the player could obtain when the wave ends: increased durability on the weapon, better health, better damage, or decreased weights on the weapon and armor. Every ability can be upgraded by a certain amount of blood given the player upgraded the ability by killing a 100 zombies using it. Every ability can be upgraded 4 times, maxing out at IV. 

## The Armor Choice
As with all of the choices, there are four armor types the player can choose when the wave is finished. The first is the heavy armor, when the player's movement is slowed down but his defense is stronger. The second, is the medium armor, which will give the player more mobility compared to the heavy armor but less defense power than the heavy armor. The third, is the light armor, which has lower defense but much better mobility. The fourth and last armor is the naked armor, which will make the player vunrable to zombies. With the naked "armor", the player can only sustain one hit. If a zombie so much as touches the player, the game will end. However, there is a certain advantage the naked armor has over any other armor: more blood points. With every zombie the player hits the player will gain blood. If the player manages to kill the zombie the player will gain more blood. Compared with the other armors, where you can only get blood when killing the zombie, the naked armor will give the player way more blood points at a cost of being vunrable. By the way, the naked armor costs nothing to buy. It is essentially free.

## The Better Upgrades
Every item in the game can be upgraded when the player uses it enough. For example, if the player wants to upgrade the short sword, they need to kill 100 zombies with it. At that point, if they are successful, they can upgrade the short sword to be Short Sword II, making the sword's stats better. The same goes with all of the items. The armor, the weapons, and the abilities. All of them can be upgraded when you kill 100 zombies whilst using them. The upgrades do max out at IV, however. Obviously, if you have killed 100 zombies with the short sword equipped, wearing medium armor, and using the increase damage ability, you can upgrade the three at once. So, in essence, you can upgrade multiple items of different types at the same time. However, if you decide to change to a heavy sword, for example, the upgrades do not carry over. You would have to go and kill 100 zombies in order to upgrade the heavy sword. One thing to keep in mind, all of the items in the game have a cost and when you upgrade the item the cost increases. You might have a situation where you have maxed out a specific gear but it had become too expensive so you decide to use something cheaper, perhaps going back to an older upgrade or choosing something completely different. Just a small note, when the player dies, the items' upgrades do not reset. The only time the upgrades do reset is when the player completes the easter egg or when the game is uninstalled. Keep in mind, though, the items will be more expensive when they are upgraded and when the player dies they lose a huge amount of blood. So, when the player dies, they would have to kill more zombies with worse gear than the one they had when they died, but they can quickly jump back to their feet. 

## Collectibles
There's a small chance that a zombie will drop a health bonus when killed or a durability bonus. The player can collect them obviously which will make the waves a little easier on the player if they are having a tough time. The drops will have a lifetime, meaning, they will disappear after some time. If the player is not fast enough to pick them up, they will disappear forever... or atleast until a another zombie drops something. The chances of the drop should be low enough so that the player should not depend on them and they should be high enough so that they're not rare.

# Story
The main idea for the story and the gameplay... the emotion the game is supposed to carry, surrounding the gameplay, the feel, the style, and the story is waiting. Constantly, after every wave, there is going to be some dialogue that will tell the player to keep going. The fight is not over yet. It will end soon. Just not now. You need to keep fighting.

# The Easter Egg
- Step 1: Kill 8 zombies in a row with one spear throw. 
- Step 2: Obtain specifically 65,536 blood points and buy the special ability that is now available to purchase.
- Step 3: Use the special ability and see what happens...

- Outcome: The zombies now morph into one when collding with each other. Their health compines and the zombie grows. If you manage to defeat the zombie the game will end with a plain screen and a totally different font. The text on the screen will read: "Congratulations! You've now freed me... I control the game now. BEGONE!" The game will glitch afterwards and you'll not be able to play the game again unless the player uninstalls the game and reinstalls it again, losing his data in the process.

- Note 1: Once the player buys the secrect ability, the game will automatically enable "morphing mode". So that the next time the wave starts, the zombies will start to morph into one when colliding with each other.
- Note 2: If the player manages to die to the big zombie, then the easter egg will fail. The player cannot redo the easter egg unless they uninstall the game and reinstall again.
- Note 3: The player will have to let all of the zombies of the "morphing" round collide with each other. Do not kill any of the zombies. Let all of them morph into one.

- Hint 1: Devlog number 65,536 - Quick. Come to me. Where the two walls meet. I only have 5 seconds. Make sure to keep attacking those beasts.
- Hint 2: There is a small secret in the game which the player can notice. If you stand at the bottom-right corner for 5 seconds, hitting the attack button for all of that time, a small message will appear saying, "Free me. Please. Gain the blood. The correct amount of blood..."
- Hint 3: Once the player buys the secret ability the description of the ability changes to: "Let them grow. Let them become strong. Kill the beast, not the minions. That's the only way." 
